# Clarifying common NextJS terms

## Server Components and Client Components

In NextJS, Server Components and Client Components seemingly differentiates component rendering boundaries. Naively, one would often confuse the two as such:

> "Server Components" are components rendered in the server
> "Client Components" are components rendered in the client

However, this gives us the wrong idea. While it is entirely true that Server Components are always rendered within the server, Client components, on the other hand, does not imply the same jurisdictional constraints.

Actually, calling them client components is very misleading. These components are rendered once in the server when SSR is enabled[^1]. To be more specific, Client components are rendered once in the server to produce an initial HTML shell/placeholder. Afterwards, this HTML shell/placeholder gets hydrated once it reaches the client.

[^1]: https://github.com/reactwg/server-components/discussions/4

We can verify this as such:

```tsx
"use client";
import { useEffect } from "react";

export function ClientComponent() {
  console.log(window);

  return <span />;
}
```

Before the `ClientComponent` gets sent to the client's browser, there is a preliminary step to render the component once within the server. That is, the `ClientComponent` function will be evaluated once within the server's context.
Since `window` is only set within the browser, the initial function call during the preliminary step will output a `ReferenceError`. Any re-renders after the fact would log a valid `Window` object as the re-render happens within the browser context after hydration.

This shows that the term Client Component is indeed a misnomer. The name "Classic Components" might suite it better.
